Hive components

     The Hive architecture consists of the following components:
         
        1.  Command Line Interface: By default, it is the way to access Hive queries and commands.
        
        2. Hive Server: It runs Hive as a server exposing a thrift service, which enables access from 
                        a range of clients written in different languages.
                        
        3.Hive Web Interface: Hive Hive provides web-based GUI for executing Hive queries and commands.
        
        4.Shell: A shell is the command line interface which allows interactive queries similar to MySQL
                 shell connected to the database. It also supports web and JDBC clients. Driver, compiler and execution
                 engine take the hiveql scripts and run in Hadoop environment.
        
        5.Driver: The driver is the component which receives the queries. This component implements the notion of
                  session handles and provides execute and fetch APIs modeled on JDBC/ODBC interfaces.
                  
        6.Compiler: The compiler parses the query does semantic analysis on the different query blocks and query expressions. 
                    It eventually generates an execution plan with the help of the table and partition metadata looked 
                    up from the metastoremetastore.
                    
        7.Execution Engine: This component executes the execution plan created by the compiler. The plan has a DAG of stages.
                            The engine manages the dependencies between these different stages of the plan. It executes these stages on the associated
                            system components.
                            
        8.Metastore: This component stores all the structure information of the various table and partitions in the warehouse. 
                     It includes column and column type information, the serializers and deserializers (also called SerDe) necessary to read and
                     write data and the corresponding hdfs files where the data is stored.
        
        


    
